the email dated 9th September, 2005, a copy of whic h was filed by her before the Central 
Government Tribunal-cum-Labour Court (Industrial Ad judicator) along with her 
rejoinder to the written statement of the Corporati on.  
 
4.  The order dated 30th June, 2006 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal-
cum-Labour Court was challenged by the Banking Corp oration in a writ petition being 
Writ Petition (Civil) No.12602/2006. Along with the  petition an application for interim 
order was also filed. A Learned Single Judge of thi s Court by order dated 11th August, 
2006 had stayed the interim order of the Industrial  Adjudicator dated 30th June, 2006.  
 
5.  The said Writ Petition (Civil) No.12602 of 2006  has been heard finally and 
decided by judgment dated 24th September, 2008 and the writ petition of the Banking 
Corporation has been dismissed and the interim orde r granted by order dated 11th 
August, 2006 was also vacated.  
 
6.  The plea of the petitioner is that the interim order dated 11th August, 2006 was 
obtained by the Banking Corporation, represented by  respondents, by concealing the 
email dated 9th September, 2005. According to the p etitioner, had the Banking 
Corporation filed the copy of the said email which was already on record, the learned 
single Judge would not have passed the interim orde r dated 11th August, 2006 staying the 
interim award dated 30th June, 2006 of the Industri al Adjudicator.  
 
7.  The petitioner has also contended that the resp ondents have willfully made a false 
and incorrect statement in the writ petition being Writ Petition (Civil) No.12602/2006 in 
paragraph 5.17 contending that no such document (em ail dated 9th September, 2005) is 
available on the record before the learned Tribunal , though the same had been filed by the 
petitioner along with her rejoinder before the Indu strial adjudicator in the reply to the 
written statement filed by the banking Corporation.   
 
8.  We have heard the petitioner, who appears in pe rson, on 11th September, 2008; 
25th September, 2008; 16th October, 2008 and have a lso perused copies of various 
documents filed by her from time to time and the ju dgments relied on by her. The 
petitioner has relied on 1974 SCC (Crl.) 727, Narai ndas v. The Government of Madhya 
Pradesh and Others; (1996) 7 SCC 397, Afzal and Ano ther v. State of Haryana and 
Others; 1996 (83) E.L.T. 256 (SC), Union of India v . Kitply Industries; (1995) 1 SCC 
421, Chandra Shashi v. Anil Kumar Verma and (2003) 5 SCC 376, M.C. Mehta v. Union 
of India and Others to contend that the action of t he banking corporation in not filing the 
copy of the e-mail dated 9th September, 2005 has in terfered and tended to interfere with 
the due course of justice as the banking corporatio n was granted ex-parte stay of order 
dated 30th June, 2006 of the Industrial Adjudicator .  
 
9.  Learned single Judge while disposing of the wri t petition in which, according to 
the petitioner, interim order was granted on accoun t of suppression of the email dated 9th 
September, 2005, had considered the plea of the pet itioner that the interim order was 
granted on account of suppression of fact but had n ot upheld the same. The learned single 
Judge had held as under:- 24. The workman made nume rous other submissions, impugning the conduct of the Corporation, both befo re the Industrial Adjudicator and this 
Court, including but not limited to, misleading thi s Court on the facts without filing any 
documentary evidence in support of such purported f acts. In addition, she expectedly 
supported the validity and legality of both the ord er of the Central Government making 
the subject reference and the order of the Industri al Adjudicator granting interim relief. 
From the order of the Learned Single Judge it is ap parent that it has not been held that the 
interim order dated 11th August 2006 was granted on ly on account of non-consideration 
of email dated 9th September, 2005. The plea of the  petitioner, in the facts and 
circumstances, that the interim order dated 11th Au gust, 2006 would not have been 
passed, in case the e-mail dated 9th September, 200 5 had been filed before the single 
Judge, cannot be accepted.  
 
10.  The petitioner had filed another contempt case  being Cont Case (Civil) No.135 of 
2007 which was disposed of by order dated 10th Sept ember, 2007. The petitioner, who 
appears in person, contend that in her written stat ement filed before the single Judge she 
had taken the plea that the ex parte order dated 11 th August, 2006 was passed only on 
account of suppression of email dated 9th September , 2005, however, no specific finding 
has been given about the effect of suppression of e mail dated 9th September, 2005 and, 
therefore, this court should exercise its jurisdict ion in the interest of justice and issue 
notice to the respondents.  
 
11.  If the order dated 24th September, 2008 dismis sing the writ petition of the 
respondents has an error apparent she is entitled t o get it corrected either by filing the 
Review petition, if the petitioner is aggrieved on account of non-adjudication of her plea 
of fraud played by the Banking Corporation, the app ropriate remedy for the petitioner is 
to file an appropriate appeal or petition before th e Appellate Court. The petition under 
Sections 2, 12 and 14 of the Contempt of Courts Act , 1971 shall not be maintainable in 
these facts and circumstances to correct any error committed by the Learned Single Judge 
while dismissing the writ petition of the Banking C orporation against the interim order of 
the Industrial Adjudicator granting her interim rel ief.  
 
12.  The judgments relied on by the petitioner are distinguishable. In Naraindas 
(supra), the Apex Court had held that mere making o f incorrect statements in justification 
of a decision to postpone the reopening of the scho ols could not possibly have had any 
prejudicial effect on due course of justice so far as appeal and the writ petitions were 
concerned in that matter. It was, however, held tha t a wrong or misleading statement, if 
made deliberately and willfully, by a party to a li tigation with a view to obtain a 
favorable order, would prejudice or interfere with the due course of judicial proceedings. 
However, in the present case, it has not been held that the interim order staying the 
interim order of the Industrial Adjudicator was pas sed merely because copy of email 
dated 9th September, 2005 was not filed and conside red. Consequently it cannot be held 
that a favorable order was obtained by concealment as has been alleged by the petitioner. 
In any case, this matter was also raised before the  single Judge who has not held that any 
favorable order was passed in favour of the Banking  Corporation on account of 
withholding or concealment of alleged email.  
 13.  The other judgment cited by the petitioner, Af zal and Another (supra) is also 
clearly distinguishable as in that case during the pendency of habeas corpus petition 
before the Supreme Court regarding the confinement of two minor boys by the police, the 
Head Constable had forged the signatures of SP on t he carbon copy of the affidavit which 
was to be filed in the Supreme Court. A second coun ter affidavit was also filed which 
was also found to be false and consequently the Ape x Court had punished 
Superintendent, Sub Inspector and ASI. The case of the petitioner is clearly 
distinguishable and on the basis of the ratio of th e case relied on by the petitioner, it 
cannot be held that respondents have interfered wit h the administration of justice and 
have committed criminal contempt of court as has be en alleged by the petitioner.  
 
14.  In Union of India v. Kitply Industries (supra) , a categorical statement was made 
by the President of the assessee Company that no co ntempt petition had been filed in 
Guwahati High Court. Consequent to the false affida vit filed, certified copy of the 
contempt petition as well as the order of the Guwah ati High Court was produced and in 
the circumstances on a prima facie view, it was hel d that a false affidavit was filed in the 
Supreme Court and consequently the contempt proceed ings were initiated.  
 
15.  In Chandra Shashi (supra), the petitioner wife  had prayed for the transfer of 
matrimonial proceedings on the ground of her povert y. To resist that prayer of the wife, 
forged and fabricated documents were filed by the h usband. In the circumstances, it was 
held that if recourse to falsehood is taken with ob lique motive, the same would definitely 
hinder, hamper or impede even flow of justice and w ould prevent the courts from 
performing their legal duties as they are supposed to do.  
 
16.  In M.C. Mehta (supra), a sole proprietor of a hot mix plant in total disregard and 
in defiance of consistent orders passed by the Supr eme Court continued to operate hot 
mix plant and thereafter defended his action and fo und faults with the orders passed by 
the Supreme Court. In those circumstances, it was h eld that the proprietor of hot mix 
plant had committed contempt of court.  
 
17.  The precedents relied on by the petitioner are  clearly distinguishable. It is well 
settled that a little difference in facts or additi onal facts may make a lot of difference in 
the precedential value of a decision. In Ambica Qua rry Works v. State of Gujarat and 
Ors. MANU/SC/0049/1986 the Supreme Court had observ ed:- The ratio of any decision 
must be understood in the background of the facts o f that case. It has been said long time 
ago that a case is only an authority for what it ac tually decides, and not what logically 
follows from it. In Rafiq Vs State, 1980 SCC (Crl) 946 it was observed by the Supreme 
Court as under: The ratio of one case cannot be mec hanically applied to another case 
without having regard to the fact situation and cir cumstances obtaining in two cases. 
Similarly in Bhavnagar University v. Palitana Sugar  Mills Pvt Ltd (2003) 2 SC 111 (vide 
para 59), the Supreme Court had observed:- It is we ll settled that a little difference in 
facts or additional facts may make a lot of differe nce in the precedential value of a 
decision.  
 18.  Considering the totality of facts and circumst ances, it cannot be held that the order 
dated 11th August, 2006 was passed by the Learned s ingle Judge only on account of non-
consideration of alleged email dated 9th September,  2005. The matter was raised before 
the single Judge which has not held so and in the c ircumstances the plea of the petitioner 
that the respondents have willfully and deliberatel y made false statements and have 
played a fraud causing serious prejudice to petitio ner and irreparable injury and has thus 
interfered with the due course of justice and admin istration of justice cannot be accepted.  
 
19.  The petitioner who appears in person has conte nded that the representative of the 
respondents are keeping a watch on the proceedings and are mocking at her and in the 
circumstances notice to show cause be issued to the m. It is a serious matter to issue 
notice in a matter seeking initiation of Criminal C ontempt. Prima facie we are not 
satisfied that petitioner has been able to make out  a case for initiation of Contempt of 
Court proceedings against the respondents and conse quently on misplaced sympathies, if 
any, for the petitioner, notice to show cause canno t be issued to the respondents.  
 
20.  There is no merit in the petition. It is, ther efore, dismissed.  
 
Sd./- 
ANIL KUMAR, J.  
 
Sd./- 
November 06, 2008       V.K. SHALI, J.  